README.md, before:

# Collocation and Concordance Computation #
[![Build](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/actions/workflows/build-test.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/actions/workflows/build-test.yml?query=branch%3Amaster)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/cwb-ccc.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/cwb-ccc)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/cwb-ccc)](https://pepy.tech/project/cwb-ccc)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/cwb-ccc.svg)](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Imports: association-measures](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20imports-association--measures-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=gray)](https://github.com/fau-klue/pandas-association-measures)

**cwb-ccc** is a Python 3 wrapper around the [IMS Open Corpus Workbench (CWB)](http://cwb.sourceforge.net/).  Main purpose of the module is to run queries (including queries with more than two anchor points), extract concordance lines, and score frequency lists (particularly to extract collocates and keywords).

The [Quickstart](#quickstart) should get you started. For a more detailed overview of the functionality, see the [Vignette](demos/vignette.md).

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  * [Accessing Corpora](#accessing-corpora)
  * [Queries and SubCorpora](#queries-and-subcorpus)
  * [Concordancing](#concordancing)
  * [Collocates](#collocation-analyses)
  * [Keywords](#keyword-analyses)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


### Installation ###

The module needs a working installation of the [CWB](http://cwb.sourceforge.net/) and operates on CWB-indexed corpora. If you want to run queries with more than two anchor points, you will need CWB version 3.4.16 or later.

You can install cwb-ccc with pip from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cwb-ccc/):

    python -m pip install cwb-ccc

You can also clone the source from [github](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc), `cd` in the respective folder, and build your own wheel:

    python -m pip install pipenv
    pipenv install --dev
    pipenv run python3 -m cython -2 ccc/cl.pyx
    pipenv run python3 setup.py bdist_wheel


## Quickstart ##

### Accessing Corpora ###

To list all available corpora, you can use
```python
from ccc import Corpora

corpora = Corpora(registry_path="/usr/local/share/cwb/registry/")
```

All further methods rely on the `Corpus` class, which establishes the connection to your CWB-indexed corpus:

```python
from ccc import Corpus

corpus = Corpus(
  corpus_name="GERMAPARL1386",
  registry_path="/usr/local/share/cwb/registry/"
)
```

This will raise a `KeyError` if the named corpus is not in the specified registry.


### Queries and SubCorpora ###
The usual starting point for using this module is to run a query with `corpus.query()`, which accepts valid CQP queries such as

```python
subcorpus = corpus.query('[lemma="Arbeit"]', context_break='s')
```

The result is a `SubCorpus`; at its core this is a pandas DataFrame with corpus positions (similar to CWB dumps of NQRs).


### Concordancing ###

You can access concordance lines via the `concordance()` method of the subcorpus.  This method returns a DataFrame with information about the query matches in context:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.concordance()</code></summary>
<p>

| *match* | *matchend* | word                                                                                                                                                    |
|--------:|-----------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|     151 |        151 | Er brachte diese Erfahrung in seine Arbeit im Ausschuß für Familie , Senioren , Frauen und Jugend sowie im Petitionsausschuß ein , wo er sich vor allem |
|     227 |        227 | Seine Arbeit und sein Rat werden uns fehlen .                                                                                                           |
|    1493 |       1493 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|    1555 |       1555 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|    1598 |       1598 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|     ... |        ... | ...                                                                                                                                                     |
|         |            |                                                                                                                                                         |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

By default, this retrieves concordance lines in simple format in the order in which they appear in the corpus. A better approach is

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.concordance(form='kwic', order='random')</code></summary>
<p>

| *match* | *matchend* | left\_word                                                                                                                                    | node\_word | right\_word                                                                                                                                        |
|--------:|-----------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   81769 |      81769 | Ich unterstütze daher nachträglich die Forderung , daß die Durchführung des Gesetzes auch künftig durch die Bundesanstalt für                 | Arbeit     | vorgenommen wird ; denn beim Bund gibt es die entsprechend ausgebildeten Sachbearbeiter .                                                          |
|    8774 |       8774 | Glauben Sie im Ernst , Sie könnten am Ende ein Bündnis für                                                                                    | Arbeit     | , eine Wende in der deutschen Politik , die Bekämpfung der Arbeitslosigkeit erreichen , wenn Sie nicht die Länder ,                                |
|    8994 |       8994 | alle Entscheidungen gemeinsam zu treffen , die sich gegen Schwarzarbeit und illegale                                                          | Arbeit     | wenden , und gemeinsam nach einem Weg zu suchen ,                                                                                                  |
|   80098 |      80098 | : Was der Vermittlungsausschuß mit Mehrheit zum Meister-BAföG beschlossen hat , heißt , daß die bewährten Institutionen der Bundesanstalt für | Arbeit     | , die die Ausbildungsförderung für Meister bis zum Jahr 1993 durchgeführt haben , die darin große Erfahrung haben , die                            |
|   61056 |      61056 | Selbst wenn Sie ein Konstrukt anbieten , das tendenziell die zusätzliche Belastung der Bundesanstalt für                                      | Arbeit     | etwas geringer hielte als die Entlastung bei der gesetzlichen Rentenversicherung , so wäre dies bei einem deutlichen Aufwuchs der Arbeitslosigkeit |
|     ... |        ... | ...                                                                                                                                           | ...        | ...                                                                                                                                                |
|         |            |                                                                                                                                               |            |                                                                                                                                                    |

</p>
</details>
<br/>


### Collocation Analyses ###

After executing a query, you can use `subcorpus.collocates()` to extract collocates for a given window size (symmetric windows around the corpus matches). The result will be a `DataFrame` with lemmata as index and frequency signatures and association measures as columns:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.collocates()</code></summary>
<p>

| *item*   |   O11 |   O12 |   O21 |    O22 |   R1 |     R2 |   C1 |     C2 |      N |      E11 |     E12 |      E21 |    E22 |   z\_score |   t\_score |   log\_likelihood |   simple\_ll |   min\_sensitivity |   liddell |     dice |   log\_ratio |   conservative\_log\_ratio |   mutual\_information |   local\_mutual\_information |     ipm |   ipm\_reference |   ipm\_expected |   in\_nodes |   marginal |
|:---------|------:|------:|------:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-------:|---------:|--------:|---------:|-------:|-----------:|-----------:|------------------:|-------------:|-------------------:|----------:|---------:|-------------:|---------------------------:|----------------------:|-----------------------------:|--------:|-----------------:|----------------:|------------:|-----------:|
| für      |    46 |   730 |   831 | 148102 |  776 | 148933 |  877 | 148832 | 149709 |  4.54583 | 771.454 |  872.454 | 148061 |  19.4429   |   6.11208  |        134.301    |   130.019    |           0.052452 |  0.047547 | 0.055656 |     3.40925  |                    2.26335 |              1.00514  |                    46.2366   | 59278.4 |          5579.69 |         5858.03 |           0 |        877 |
| ,        |    43 |   733 |  7827 | 141106 |  776 | 148933 | 7870 | 141839 | 149709 | 40.7933  | 735.207 | 7829.21  | 141104 |   0.345505 |   0.336523 |          0.124564 |     0.117278 |           0.005464 |  0.000296 | 0.009947 |     0.076412 |                    0       |              0.02288  |                     0.983836 | 55412.4 |         52553.8  |        52568.6  |           0 |       7870 |
| .        |    33 |   743 |  5626 | 143307 |  776 | 148933 | 5659 | 144050 | 149709 | 29.3328  | 746.667 | 5629.67  | 143303 |   0.677108 |   0.638378 |          0.461005 |     0.440481 |           0.005831 |  0.000673 | 0.010256 |     0.170891 |                    0       |              0.05116  |                     1.68829  | 42525.8 |         37775.4  |        37800    |           0 |       5659 |
| und      |    32 |   744 |  2848 | 146085 |  776 | 148933 | 2880 | 146829 | 149709 | 14.9282  | 761.072 | 2865.07  | 146068 |   4.41852  |   3.0179   |         15.1452   |    14.6555   |           0.011111 |  0.006044 | 0.017505 |     1.10866  |                    0       |              0.331144 |                    10.5966   | 41237.1 |         19122.7  |        19237.3  |           0 |       2880 |
| in       |    24 |   752 |  2474 | 146459 |  776 | 148933 | 2498 | 147211 | 149709 | 12.9481  | 763.052 | 2485.05  | 146448 |   3.07138  |   2.25596  |          7.72813  |     7.51722  |           0.009608 |  0.004499 | 0.014661 |     0.896724 |                    0       |              0.268005 |                     6.43212  | 30927.8 |         16611.5  |        16685.7  |           0 |       2498 |
|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|

</p>
</details>
<br/>

The dataframe contains the counts and is annotated with all available association measures in the [pandas-association-measures](https://pypi.org/project/association-measures/) package (parameter `ams`).


### Keyword Analyses ###

Having created a subcorpus

```python
subcorpus = corpus.query(s_query='text_party', s_values={'CDU', 'CSU'})
```

you can use its `keywords()` method for retrieving keywords:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.keywords(order='conservative_log_ratio')</code></summary>
<p>

| *item*     | O11 |   O12 |  O21 |    O22 |    R1 |     R2 |   C1 |     C2 |      N |     E11 |     E12 |     E21 |    E22 | z\_score | t\_score | log\_likelihood | simple\_ll | min\_sensitivity |  liddell |     dice | log\_ratio | conservative\_log\_ratio | mutual\_information | local\_mutual\_information |     ipm | ipm\_reference | ipm\_expected |
|:-----------|----:|------:|-----:|-------:|------:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-------:|--------:|--------:|--------:|-------:|---------:|---------:|----------------:|-----------:|-----------------:|---------:|---------:|-----------:|-------------------------:|--------------------:|---------------------------:|--------:|---------------:|--------------:|
| deswegen   |  55 | 41296 |   37 | 108412 | 41351 | 108449 |   92 | 149708 | 149800 | 25.3958 | 41325.6 | 66.6042 | 108382 |  5.87452 |  3.99183 |         41.5308 |     25.794 |          0.00133 | 0.321982 | 0.002654 |    1.96293 |                 0.404166 |            0.335601 |                     18.458 | 1330.08 |        341.174 |       614.152 |
| CSU        | 255 | 41096 |  380 | 108069 | 41351 | 108449 |  635 | 149165 | 149800 | 175.286 | 41175.7 | 459.714 | 107989 |  6.02087 |  4.99187 |         46.6543 |    31.7425 |         0.006167 | 0.126068 | 0.012147 |    0.81552 |                 0.212301 |            0.162792 |                     41.512 | 6166.72 |        3503.95 |       4238.99 |
| CDU        | 260 | 41091 |  390 | 108059 | 41351 | 108449 |  650 | 149150 | 149800 | 179.427 | 41171.6 | 470.573 | 107978 |  6.01515 |  4.99693 |         46.6055 |    31.7289 |         0.006288 | 0.124499 | 0.012381 |    0.80606 |                 0.209511 |            0.161086 |                    41.8823 | 6287.64 |        3596.16 |       4339.12 |
| in         | 867 | 40484 | 1631 | 106818 | 41351 | 108449 | 2498 | 147302 | 149800 | 689.551 | 40661.4 | 1808.45 | 106641 |  6.75755 |  6.02647 |         61.2663 |    42.1849 |         0.020967 | 0.072241 | 0.039545 |    0.47937 |                 0.168901 |            0.099452 |                    86.2253 | 20966.8 |        15039.3 |       16675.6 |
| Wirtschaft |  39 | 41312 |   25 | 108424 | 41351 | 108449 |   64 | 149736 | 149800 | 17.6666 | 41333.3 | 46.3334 | 108403 |  5.07554 |  3.41607 |         30.9328 |    19.1002 |         0.000943 | 0.333476 | 0.001883 |    2.03257 |                 0.150982 |             0.34391 |                    13.4125 | 943.145 |        230.523 |       427.236 |
| ...        | ... |   ... |  ... |    ... |   ... |    ... |  ... |    ... |    ... |     ... |     ... |     ... |    ... |      ... |      ... |             ... |        ... |              ... |      ... |      ... |        ... |                      ... |                 ... |                        ... |     ... |            ... |           ... |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

Just as with collocates, the result is a `DataFrame` with lemmata as index and frequency signatures and association measures as columns.


## Testing ##
The module ships with a small test corpus ("GERMAPARL1386"), which contains all speeches of the 86th session of the 13th German Bundestag on Feburary 8, 1996. This corpus consists of 149,800 tokens in 7332 paragraphs (s-attribute "p" with annotation "type" ("regular" or "interjection")) split into 11,364 sentences (s-attribute "s").  The p-attributes are "pos" and "lemma":

<details>
<summary><code>corpus.attributes_available</code></summary>
<p>

| type   | attribute                  | annotation   | active   |
|:-------|:---------------------------|:-------------|:---------|
| p-Att  | word                       | False        | True     |
| p-Att  | pos                        | False        | False    |
| p-Att  | lemma                      | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | corpus                     | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | corpus\_name               | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung                    | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_date              | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_period            | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_session           | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div                        | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_desc                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_n                     | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_type                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_what                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text                       | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_id                   | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_name                 | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_parliamentary\_group | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_party                | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_position             | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_role                 | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_who                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | p                          | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | p\_type                    | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | s                          | False        | False    |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

The corpus is located in this [repository](tests/test-corpora/).  All tests are written using this corpus (as well as some reference counts and scores from the [UCS toolkit](http://www.collocations.de/software.html) and some additional frequency lists).  Make sure you install all development dependencies (especially [pytest](https://pytest.org/)):

    python -m pip install pipenv
    pipenv install --dev

You can then simply

    make build
    make test
    make coverage


## Acknowledgements ##

- The module includes a slight adaptation of [cwb-python](https://github.com/fau-klue/cwb-python), a Python port of Perl's CWB::CL; thanks to **Yannick Versley** for the implementation.
- Special thanks to **Markus Opolka** for the original implementation of [association-measures](https://github.com/fau-klue/pandas-association-measures) and for forcing me to write tests.
- The test corpus was extracted from the [GermaParl](https://github.com/PolMine/GermaParlTEI) corpus (see the [PolMine Project](https://polmine.github.io/)); many thanks to **Andreas Blätte**.
- This work was supported by the [Emerging Fields Initiative (EFI)](https://www.fau.eu/research/collaborative-research/emerging-fields-initiative/) of [**Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg**](https://www.fau.eu/), project title [Exploring the *Fukushima Effect*](https://www.linguistik.phil.fau.de/projects/efe/) (2017-2020).
- Further development of the package is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) within the project [Reconstructing Arguments from Noisy Text](https://www.linguistik.phil.fau.de/projects/rant/), grant number 377333057 (2018-2023), as part of the Priority Program [**Robust Argumentation Machines**](http://www.spp-ratio.de/) (SPP-1999).

Commit message:

change parameter names of directories (*_path → *_dir)

README.md, after:

# Collocation and Concordance Computation #
[![Build](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/actions/workflows/build-test.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/actions/workflows/build-test.yml?query=branch%3Amaster)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/cwb-ccc.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/cwb-ccc)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/cwb-ccc)](https://pepy.tech/project/cwb-ccc)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/cwb-ccc.svg)](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Imports: association-measures](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20imports-association--measures-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=gray)](https://github.com/fau-klue/pandas-association-measures)

**cwb-ccc** is a Python 3 wrapper around the [IMS Open Corpus Workbench (CWB)](http://cwb.sourceforge.net/).  Main purpose of the module is to run queries (including queries with more than two anchor points), extract concordance lines, and score frequency lists (particularly to extract collocates and keywords).

The [Quickstart](#quickstart) should get you started. For a more detailed overview of the functionality, see the [Vignette](demos/vignette.md).

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  * [Accessing Corpora](#accessing-corpora)
  * [Queries and SubCorpora](#queries-and-subcorpus)
  * [Concordancing](#concordancing)
  * [Collocates](#collocation-analyses)
  * [Keywords](#keyword-analyses)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


### Installation ###

The module needs a working installation of the [CWB](http://cwb.sourceforge.net/) and operates on CWB-indexed corpora. If you want to run queries with more than two anchor points, you will need CWB version 3.4.16 or later.

You can install cwb-ccc with pip from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cwb-ccc/):

    python -m pip install cwb-ccc

You can also clone the source from [github](https://github.com/ausgerechnet/cwb-ccc), `cd` in the respective folder, and build your own wheel:

    python -m pip install pipenv
    pipenv install --dev
    pipenv run python3 -m cython -2 ccc/cl.pyx
    pipenv run python3 setup.py bdist_wheel


## Quickstart ##

### Accessing Corpora ###

To list all available corpora, you can use
```python
from ccc import Corpora

corpora = Corpora(registry_dir="/usr/local/share/cwb/registry/")
```

All further methods rely on the `Corpus` class, which establishes the connection to your CWB-indexed corpus:

```python
from ccc import Corpus

corpus = Corpus(
  corpus_name="GERMAPARL1386",
  registry_dir="/usr/local/share/cwb/registry/"
)
```

This will raise a `KeyError` if the named corpus is not in the specified registry.


### Queries and SubCorpora ###

The usual starting point for using this module is to run a query with `corpus.query()`, which accepts valid CQP queries such as

```python
subcorpus = corpus.query('[lemma="Arbeit"]', context_break='s')
```

The result is a `SubCorpus`; at its core this is a pandas DataFrame with corpus positions (similar to CWB dumps of NQRs).


### Concordancing ###

You can access concordance lines via the `concordance()` method of the subcorpus.  This method returns a DataFrame with information about the query matches in context:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.concordance()</code></summary>
<p>

| *match* | *matchend* | word                                                                                                                                                    |
|--------:|-----------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|     151 |        151 | Er brachte diese Erfahrung in seine Arbeit im Ausschuß für Familie , Senioren , Frauen und Jugend sowie im Petitionsausschuß ein , wo er sich vor allem |
|     227 |        227 | Seine Arbeit und sein Rat werden uns fehlen .                                                                                                           |
|    1493 |       1493 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|    1555 |       1555 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|    1598 |       1598 | Ausschuß für Arbeit und Sozialordnung                                                                                                                   |
|     ... |        ... | ...                                                                                                                                                     |
|         |            |                                                                                                                                                         |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

By default, this retrieves concordance lines in simple format in the order in which they appear in the corpus. A better approach is

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.concordance(form='kwic', order='random')</code></summary>
<p>

| *match* | *matchend* | left\_word                                                                                                                                    | node\_word | right\_word                                                                                                                                        |
|--------:|-----------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   81769 |      81769 | Ich unterstütze daher nachträglich die Forderung , daß die Durchführung des Gesetzes auch künftig durch die Bundesanstalt für                 | Arbeit     | vorgenommen wird ; denn beim Bund gibt es die entsprechend ausgebildeten Sachbearbeiter .                                                          |
|    8774 |       8774 | Glauben Sie im Ernst , Sie könnten am Ende ein Bündnis für                                                                                    | Arbeit     | , eine Wende in der deutschen Politik , die Bekämpfung der Arbeitslosigkeit erreichen , wenn Sie nicht die Länder ,                                |
|    8994 |       8994 | alle Entscheidungen gemeinsam zu treffen , die sich gegen Schwarzarbeit und illegale                                                          | Arbeit     | wenden , und gemeinsam nach einem Weg zu suchen ,                                                                                                  |
|   80098 |      80098 | : Was der Vermittlungsausschuß mit Mehrheit zum Meister-BAföG beschlossen hat , heißt , daß die bewährten Institutionen der Bundesanstalt für | Arbeit     | , die die Ausbildungsförderung für Meister bis zum Jahr 1993 durchgeführt haben , die darin große Erfahrung haben , die                            |
|   61056 |      61056 | Selbst wenn Sie ein Konstrukt anbieten , das tendenziell die zusätzliche Belastung der Bundesanstalt für                                      | Arbeit     | etwas geringer hielte als die Entlastung bei der gesetzlichen Rentenversicherung , so wäre dies bei einem deutlichen Aufwuchs der Arbeitslosigkeit |
|     ... |        ... | ...                                                                                                                                           | ...        | ...                                                                                                                                                |
|         |            |                                                                                                                                               |            |                                                                                                                                                    |

</p>
</details>
<br/>


### Collocation Analyses ###

After executing a query, you can use `subcorpus.collocates()` to extract collocates (see the vignette for parameter settings). The result is a `DataFrame` with lemmata as index and frequency signatures and association measures as columns:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.collocates()</code></summary>
<p>

| *item*   |   O11 |   O12 |   O21 |    O22 |   R1 |     R2 |   C1 |     C2 |      N |      E11 |     E12 |      E21 |    E22 |   z\_score |   t\_score |   log\_likelihood |   simple\_ll |   min\_sensitivity |   liddell |     dice |   log\_ratio |   conservative\_log\_ratio |   mutual\_information |   local\_mutual\_information |     ipm |   ipm\_reference |   ipm\_expected |   in\_nodes |   marginal |
|:---------|------:|------:|------:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-------:|---------:|--------:|---------:|-------:|-----------:|-----------:|------------------:|-------------:|-------------------:|----------:|---------:|-------------:|---------------------------:|----------------------:|-----------------------------:|--------:|-----------------:|----------------:|------------:|-----------:|
| für      |    46 |   730 |   831 | 148102 |  776 | 148933 |  877 | 148832 | 149709 |  4.54583 | 771.454 |  872.454 | 148061 |  19.4429   |   6.11208  |        134.301    |   130.019    |           0.052452 |  0.047547 | 0.055656 |     3.40925  |                    2.26335 |              1.00514  |                    46.2366   | 59278.4 |          5579.69 |         5858.03 |           0 |        877 |
| ,        |    43 |   733 |  7827 | 141106 |  776 | 148933 | 7870 | 141839 | 149709 | 40.7933  | 735.207 | 7829.21  | 141104 |   0.345505 |   0.336523 |          0.124564 |     0.117278 |           0.005464 |  0.000296 | 0.009947 |     0.076412 |                    0       |              0.02288  |                     0.983836 | 55412.4 |         52553.8  |        52568.6  |           0 |       7870 |
| .        |    33 |   743 |  5626 | 143307 |  776 | 148933 | 5659 | 144050 | 149709 | 29.3328  | 746.667 | 5629.67  | 143303 |   0.677108 |   0.638378 |          0.461005 |     0.440481 |           0.005831 |  0.000673 | 0.010256 |     0.170891 |                    0       |              0.05116  |                     1.68829  | 42525.8 |         37775.4  |        37800    |           0 |       5659 |
| und      |    32 |   744 |  2848 | 146085 |  776 | 148933 | 2880 | 146829 | 149709 | 14.9282  | 761.072 | 2865.07  | 146068 |   4.41852  |   3.0179   |         15.1452   |    14.6555   |           0.011111 |  0.006044 | 0.017505 |     1.10866  |                    0       |              0.331144 |                    10.5966   | 41237.1 |         19122.7  |        19237.3  |           0 |       2880 |
| in       |    24 |   752 |  2474 | 146459 |  776 | 148933 | 2498 | 147211 | 149709 | 12.9481  | 763.052 | 2485.05  | 146448 |   3.07138  |   2.25596  |          7.72813  |     7.51722  |           0.009608 |  0.004499 | 0.014661 |     0.896724 |                    0       |              0.268005 |                     6.43212  | 30927.8 |         16611.5  |        16685.7  |           0 |       2498 |
|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|

</p>
</details>
<br/>

The dataframe contains the counts and is annotated with all available association measures in the [pandas-association-measures](https://pypi.org/project/association-measures/) package (parameter `ams`).


### Keyword Analyses ###

Having created a subcorpus

```python
subcorpus = corpus.query(s_query='text_party', s_values={'CDU', 'CSU'})
```

you can use its `keywords()` method for retrieving keywords:

<details>
<summary><code>subcorpus.keywords(order='conservative_log_ratio')</code></summary>
<p>

| *item*     | O11 |   O12 |  O21 |    O22 |    R1 |     R2 |   C1 |     C2 |      N |     E11 |     E12 |     E21 |    E22 | z\_score | t\_score | log\_likelihood | simple\_ll | min\_sensitivity |  liddell |     dice | log\_ratio | conservative\_log\_ratio | mutual\_information | local\_mutual\_information |     ipm | ipm\_reference | ipm\_expected |
|:-----------|----:|------:|-----:|-------:|------:|-------:|-----:|-------:|-------:|--------:|--------:|--------:|-------:|---------:|---------:|----------------:|-----------:|-----------------:|---------:|---------:|-----------:|-------------------------:|--------------------:|---------------------------:|--------:|---------------:|--------------:|
| deswegen   |  55 | 41296 |   37 | 108412 | 41351 | 108449 |   92 | 149708 | 149800 | 25.3958 | 41325.6 | 66.6042 | 108382 |  5.87452 |  3.99183 |         41.5308 |     25.794 |          0.00133 | 0.321982 | 0.002654 |    1.96293 |                 0.404166 |            0.335601 |                     18.458 | 1330.08 |        341.174 |       614.152 |
| CSU        | 255 | 41096 |  380 | 108069 | 41351 | 108449 |  635 | 149165 | 149800 | 175.286 | 41175.7 | 459.714 | 107989 |  6.02087 |  4.99187 |         46.6543 |    31.7425 |         0.006167 | 0.126068 | 0.012147 |    0.81552 |                 0.212301 |            0.162792 |                     41.512 | 6166.72 |        3503.95 |       4238.99 |
| CDU        | 260 | 41091 |  390 | 108059 | 41351 | 108449 |  650 | 149150 | 149800 | 179.427 | 41171.6 | 470.573 | 107978 |  6.01515 |  4.99693 |         46.6055 |    31.7289 |         0.006288 | 0.124499 | 0.012381 |    0.80606 |                 0.209511 |            0.161086 |                    41.8823 | 6287.64 |        3596.16 |       4339.12 |
| in         | 867 | 40484 | 1631 | 106818 | 41351 | 108449 | 2498 | 147302 | 149800 | 689.551 | 40661.4 | 1808.45 | 106641 |  6.75755 |  6.02647 |         61.2663 |    42.1849 |         0.020967 | 0.072241 | 0.039545 |    0.47937 |                 0.168901 |            0.099452 |                    86.2253 | 20966.8 |        15039.3 |       16675.6 |
| Wirtschaft |  39 | 41312 |   25 | 108424 | 41351 | 108449 |   64 | 149736 | 149800 | 17.6666 | 41333.3 | 46.3334 | 108403 |  5.07554 |  3.41607 |         30.9328 |    19.1002 |         0.000943 | 0.333476 | 0.001883 |    2.03257 |                 0.150982 |             0.34391 |                    13.4125 | 943.145 |        230.523 |       427.236 |
| ...        | ... |   ... |  ... |    ... |   ... |    ... |  ... |    ... |    ... |     ... |     ... |     ... |    ... |      ... |      ... |             ... |        ... |              ... |      ... |      ... |        ... |                      ... |                 ... |                        ... |     ... |            ... |           ... |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

Just as with collocates, the result is a `DataFrame` with lemmata as index and frequency signatures and association measures as columns.


## Testing ##
The module ships with a small test corpus ("GERMAPARL1386"), which contains all speeches of the 86th session of the 13th German Bundestag on Feburary 8, 1996. This corpus consists of 149,800 tokens in 7332 paragraphs (s-attribute "p" with annotation "type" ("regular" or "interjection")) split into 11,364 sentences (s-attribute "s").  The p-attributes are "pos" and "lemma":

<details>
<summary><code>corpus.attributes_available</code></summary>
<p>

| type   | attribute                  | annotation   | active   |
|:-------|:---------------------------|:-------------|:---------|
| p-Att  | word                       | False        | True     |
| p-Att  | pos                        | False        | False    |
| p-Att  | lemma                      | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | corpus                     | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | corpus\_name               | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung                    | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_date              | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_period            | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | sitzung\_session           | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div                        | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_desc                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_n                     | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_type                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | div\_what                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text                       | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_id                   | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_name                 | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_parliamentary\_group | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_party                | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_position             | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_role                 | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | text\_who                  | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | p                          | False        | False    |
| s-Att  | p\_type                    | True         | False    |
| s-Att  | s                          | False        | False    |

</p>
</details>
<br/>

The corpus is located in this [repository](tests/test-corpora/).  All tests are written using this corpus (as well as some reference counts and scores from the [UCS toolkit](http://www.collocations.de/software.html) and some additional frequency lists).  Make sure you install all development dependencies (especially [pytest](https://pytest.org/)):

    python -m pip install pipenv
    pipenv install --dev

You can then simply

    make build
    make test
    make coverage


## Acknowledgements ##

- The module includes a slight adaptation of [cwb-python](https://github.com/fau-klue/cwb-python), a Python port of Perl's CWB::CL; thanks to **Yannick Versley** for the implementation.
- Special thanks to **Markus Opolka** for the original implementation of [association-measures](https://github.com/fau-klue/pandas-association-measures) and for forcing me to write tests.
- The test corpus was extracted from the [GermaParl](https://github.com/PolMine/GermaParlTEI) corpus (see the [PolMine Project](https://polmine.github.io/)); many thanks to **Andreas Blätte**.
- This work was supported by the [Emerging Fields Initiative (EFI)](https://www.fau.eu/research/collaborative-research/emerging-fields-initiative/) of [**Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg**](https://www.fau.eu/), project title [Exploring the *Fukushima Effect*](https://www.linguistik.phil.fau.de/projects/efe/) (2017-2020).
- Further development of the package is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) within the project [Reconstructing Arguments from Noisy Text](https://www.linguistik.phil.fau.de/projects/rant/), grant number 377333057 (2018-2024), as part of the Priority Program [**Robust Argumentation Machines**](http://www.spp-ratio.de/) (SPP-1999).
